---
id: Module 2
aliases: []
tags: []
---
# Embedded Systems

*It an Electro-mechanical which is a ==combination of software and hardware design(working together) to do a specific task==*
*It is any device that includes a programmable computer but is not itself intended to be a general-purpose computer. Thus, a PC is not itself an embedded computing system, although PCs are often used to build embedded computing systems. But a fax machine or a clock built from a microprocessor is an embedded computing system.*



## Contents
- [Module 1](BTech/S6/Embedded%20Systems/Embedded%20Systems.md#Module%201)
	- - [Module 1 Syllabus](BTech/S6/Embedded%20Systems/Embedded%20Systems.md#Module%201%20Syllabus)
	- 
- [Module 2](BTech/S6/Embedded%20Systems/Embedded%20Systems.md#Module%202)
	- [[BTech/S6/Embedded Systems/Files/Module 2/Serial Comm|Serial Communication]]
	- [[BTech/S6/Embedded Systems/Files/Module 2/Memory|Memory]]
	- [[BTech/S6/Embedded Systems/Files/Module 2/I_O Devices|I_O Devices]]
## Concepts
- [RTOS](BTech/S6/Embedded%20Systems/RTOS.md)
- [Context Switching]()
- Shared Memory
- Dead Lock

> [!NOTE] Dead Lock
> If two task were tring to access the same resource at the same time ,This situation is known as `Dead Lock` 


## Module 1
### Contens
- [Module 1 Syllabus](BTech/S6/Embedded%20Systems/Embedded%20Systems.md#Module%201%20Syllabus)

### Module 1 Syllabus 
- Complex Systems and Microprocessors
	- Embedding Computers
	- Characteristics of Embedded computing Applications,
	- Application of Microprocessors,
	- The Physics of Software,
	- Challenges in Embedded Computing System,
	- Characteristics and quality attributes of an embedded system,
	- Performance in Embedded Computing
- The Embedded System Design Process
	- Requirements,
	- Specification ,
	- Architecture Design,
	- Designing Hardware and Software Components ,
	- System Integration.
- Formalisms for System Design
	- Structural Description,
	- Behavioral Description,
	- An embedded system design example.
- Embedded product development cycle (EDLC)
	- Different phases of EDLC, EDLC models
---
## Module 2
#### Topics
- [Module 2 Syllabus](BTech/S6/Embedded%20Systems/Embedded%20Systems.md#Module%202%20Syllabus)
- [[BTech/S6/Embedded Systems/Files/Module 2/Serial Comm|Serial Communication]]
- [[BTech/S6/Embedded Systems/Files/Module 2/Memory|Memory]]
- [[BTech/S6/Embedded Systems/Files/Module 2/I_O Devices|I_O Devices]]
### Module 2 Syllabus
1. Communication Devices
	- Serial Communication Standards and Devices - UART, HDLC and SPI.
	- Serial Bus Protocols -I2C Bus, CAN Bus and USB Bus.
	- Parallel communication standards ISA, PCI and PCI-X Bus
1. Memory
	- Memory devices and systems – ROM-Flash, EEPROM,RAM- SRAM, DRAM, Cache memory, memory mapping and addresses,
	- memory management unit– DMA
1. [I/O Devices](#i/o%20devices)
	- Interrupts --
		- Interrupt sources,
		- recognizing an interrupt 
	- ISR –
		- Device drivers for handling ISR
		- Shared data problem, Interrupt latency

### I/O Devices

### Interupts
An interrupt is a signal that is sent to the processor(CPU) to indicate that an event has occurred and requires attention


> [!NOTE] Hardware Interrupt
> When a `device` or a `port` is ready , a device or port generates an interrupt or when in completes the assigned action, it generates and interrupt and this interrupt is know as hardware Interrupt

> [!NOTE] Software Interrupt
> When a software run-time exception condition is detected, either processor hardware or a software instruction generates an interrupt. This interrupt is called software interrupt or trap or exception.The interrupt due to signal[^1] is also a software interrupt 

[^1]:The signal differs from the function in the sense that the execution of the signal handler function (ISR) can be masked and till the mask is reset, the handler will not execute. Function on the other hand always executes on the call after a call-instruction

In response to the interrupt, the routine or program, which is running at present gets interrupted and an [ISR](#isr) is executed.

#### ISR 
Interrupt Service Routine(ISR) is a ==software routine that gets executed in response to a Interrupt Signal  generated by a hardware or software event==. ISR is also called device driver ISR in the case of devices and is called exception or signal or trap handler in the case of software interrupts. When interrupt occurs the processor suspends the current program execution and jumps to the corresponding interrupt service routine to handle the interrupt 


Interrupt Handling is done by following stages

1. **Identifying the source of the interrupt**: The ISR needs to determine which device or event has caused the interrupt.
2. **Saving the processor state**: Before handling the interrupt, the ISR saves the current state of the processor, including the program counter, registers, and other relevant information, so that the interrupted program can be resumed correctly after the ISR has completed.
3. **Performing the necessary actions:** The ISR performs the appropriate actions to respond to the interrupt, such as reading data from a device, writing data to a device, or updating internal data structures.
4. **Clearing the interrupt**: The ISR clears the interrupt signal to indicate that the interrupt has been handled, so that the processor can return to the interrupted program.
5. **Restoring the processor state**: After handling the interrupt, the ISR restores the saved processor state, allowing the interrupted program to resume execution from the point where it was interrupted.


## Module 3

### Syllabus
1. ARM Processor architecture
	- The Acorn RISC Machine.
	- Architectural inheritance
	- The ARM programmer's model
	- ARM development tools.
2. ARM Assembly Language Programming
	-  Data processing instructions
	- Data transfer instructions
	- Control flow instructions
	- writing simple assembly language programs.
3. ARM Organization and Implementation
	- Three stage pipeline ARM organization
	- Five stage pipeline ARM organization
	- ARM instruction execution
	- ARM implementation
	- The ARM coprocessor interface. 
### ARM Processor architecture


#### ARM Assembly Programming







## References
1. 
